Document: building_the_mvp.pdf

Stanford eCorner
Building the Minimum Viable Product
30-09-2009
URL: https://stvp.stanford.edu/clips/building-the-minimum-viable-product
In the successful build-out of a lean startup,
entrepreneur and author Eric Ries suggests
adapting the rules of creating the minimum viable
product. Rather than getting the product “right”;
or employing the “release early, release often”
philosophy of soliciting customer feedback for
product development, the road to minimum viable
product fuses the two ideas. The challenge for the
startup is to figure out the smallest amount of
product features and capabilities necessary for
release, and then to slowly add more functionality
as needed. For most entrepreneurs, says Ries,
that means that any product will be about one-
eigth as robust as they would like it to be. Ship it
skinny, and add more features later – if your early
adopter customers even notice what they’re doing
without.
Transcript
 Let me say a word about minimum viable product.. I know people will have heard of this phrase at least a little bit.. The
idea here is we want to kind of -- most startups are torn between these two different approaches to building product.. One,
which I call maximizing chance of success, says "Look, we only got one chance at this so let's get it right." Right? That's what
I talked about in startup number one.. We're going to ship it when it's right and that actually is perfectly rational.. If you only
have one shot, you want to take the best shot you can and build the most perfect product you can.. The issue is, of course, you
know, you can spend, I don't know, say five years of stealth R&D, building a product you think customers want and then
discover to your chagrin that they don't.. So the other possible extreme approach is to say, "Well, let's just do 'release early,
release often'." People have heard that phrase.. And this is look, we'll just throw whatever crap we have out there and then
we'll hear what customers say and we'll do whatever they say.. But the issue there is if you show a product to three
customers, you get 30 opinions, and now what do you do? So minimum viable product is kind of a synthesis of those two
possible extremes..
 We want to figure out what's the minimum set of features necessary to engage with those early evangelists to start the
learning feedback loop going.. And so, sometimes, I get the best question, "Well, how do you know if you've found the
minimum minimum viable product?" And from a theoretical point of view, this is quite challenging.. You could make a really
interesting argument that any given feature is absolutely 100% necessary to learn.. But the good news is, there's no reason to
deal with this theoretical issue because if you're like me and like every entrepreneur I know, what you think the minimum
viable product is, is way too big, probably two orders of magnitude too many features.. I'm not exaggerating.. So the easy
formula for finding out what the minimum viable product is, is take what you think it is right now and cut it in half and do that
two more times and ship it back.. And I know, I know, customers are going to absolutely hate that thing.. It's only one-eighth
as big as you thought it should be, right? And that's fine.. If you ship that and customers say, "You moron, how could you have
shipped without having features X, Y and Z?" - the things that were all going to be on your road map anyway.. You can say,
"Good idea, good point," and then go build features X, Y and Z..
 But you may be surprised, well, of course, not you, but maybe you know a friend who would be surprised to ship a product,
as I did and nobody cares.. They don't say, "You idiot, it should have features X, Y and Z." The worst fate of any shipping of
any product is that nobody cares.. You don't get any feedback at all.. Right? That's what most features or most products do..
They're just dead weight.. So what we want to do is try to eliminate those and ship without them.. Of course, that's because
visionary customers can fill in the gaps.. Right? Early adopters can be very forgiving of missing features.. They see the vision
and you can be in dialogue with them going through that learning feedback loop.. Here are the kind of the reasons why
people don't do the minimum viable product; I'll just try to address them really quickly: First, the fear of the false negatives..
 So I ship my minimum viable product.. If it had just that one extra feature, customers would have loved it; but because it
didn't, of course, they hated it.. So, duh, why would I bother shipping something I know customers will hate? And there's
nothing wrong with that reasoning.. All I want you to do is ship anyway so maybe customers will love it even though it doesn't
have the feature X, and then you can kind of go on and be very successful.. And if you're wrong and I really do need feature X,
then you can just build feature X.. If you want to do minimum viable product, you have to be prepared to iterate.. And so you
have to have the courage to say, "Yeah, we'll ship something, get negative feedback and respond."..

Document: stanford_product_management.pdf

Product 
Management•The four primary responsibilities of product management .
1.Deeply understand customers and their 
job to be done
2.Identify new product opportunities
3.Define what to build
•Technically feasible
•Valuable to the customer
•Easy to use
4.Manage product development.

Product 
Management 
requires 
knowledge of 
multiple 
disciplinesProduct 
ManagementProduct 
DevelopmentCustomer 
Development
Accounting
MarketingManufacturingSales
Entrepreneurship

Product Management 
Stories

“Saw opportunity in IoT Healthcare space.”
The Customer job to be Done:
“Amgen, a pharma company, talked about the transportation of their 
products. They need precise temperature control during shipment, 
or products must be thrown out.
Intel can provide real time tracking temperature data on their 
shipping.”
“Pitch to Intel businesses ,” “Will help sell chips.” 
“Biggest weapon in your control is data “
“You Need to zoom in and zoom off very often, 40% big picture and 
60% nitty details.” 
“Communication is extremely important.”
“Need to explain to the dev teams about the requirements, want no 
more no less.” Current 1.Intel Corporation
Previous 1.Stanford University ,
2.Intel Corporation ,
3.IIT Madras
Education 1.Stanford UniversityCharunethran Govindarajan
Product Manager/Software Architect at Intel Corporation

Kristin George
VP of Product
TuneIn
Cornell University
B.S., Engineering
M.Eng , Engineering
•“Three Product Management skill sets”
•“GM/OPS”
• “Analytic make it happen, drive the process”
•“Design ”
• Creative front end focus
•“Someone who wants to listen to others”
•“Asks questions: “What do people listen to?” 
•“Tech/Systems” 
• “Designs the platform.”
• “Customer is internal. Builds on set of requested activities”
• “Technically creative”

“Students need to learn product success leverage is not in 
engineering”
“An POA and MRD are not telling you what to build 
They tell you what the customer wants”
“Stresses early user engagement A/B testing of MVP 
definition”Naor Brown
Product | Strategy | Data Science | R&D
San Francisco Bay Area
Computer Software
Current
Apple
Previous
Metabiota ,
Leap Motion ,
Skillz Inc.
Education
Harvard University

Ed McCracken
Experience
CEO
Silicon Graphics
Division Manager
Hewlett -Packard
•“Every engineer is better off having Product 
Management skills”
•“PM teaches what engineers are weak at”
•“PM is a rare skill, nobody is doing it”
•“Transformational mindset”
•“Think about the economic value to you of 
understanding and applying PM”
•“Companies want evangelists and experimenters”

Ben Horowitz
Andreessen Horowitz
Hewlett Packard
Opsware
Netscape
•“We want the CEO to have these PM skills, all these skills”
